---
ID: 134
post_title: Overcast
author: rony
post_date: 2015-10-24 07:06:11
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: http://www.ronyjacob.net/2015/overcast/
published: true
flavour_num_words:
  - "349"
---
Few weeks ago samantha Bielefeld wrote an <a href="http://samanthabielefeld.com/journal/the-elephant-in-the-room" target="_blank">article</a> about the Marco's Overcast pricing.That caused one of the ugliest debates happened in the recent times as I can remember. Since the main focus was drifted from first to the personal finance side of Marco and then to something like gender debate , there was no real discussion around them main topic -the App developer problem.

When Overcast embrace the patronage model (user pay what they like-completely optional) of App pricing most of iOS developers feared that it would be an end to their inde development career. The one thing that separated App store or caused the tremendous success is that the whole program was so much beneficial for inde- developer. Inde Developer can make money out of i and they can feed their family. So the inde-developer flocked around made some gorgeous apps that made money. Unfortunately that not a case now. New app developers are struggling like anything even if they have developed best in class apps. (example: Unread rss read app. It was considered as the best Rss reader by most of the reviewers. Unfortunately developer did made not much money out of it).

One of main problem that caused is the perpetual neglect of Apple towards the Apps Store. In this article I am not going to discuss that but like to concentrate on a particular scenario - predatory pricing.

When the best app in the app store become free then what will the competitors do ?.You can't do nothing other than try to innovate more!

If the best app is a paid one then next best app can be sustained by free with advertising model-(like tweetbot -paid and twitterific with ads)

But in the case of Overcast first scenario is happening. So there may not be any user for other podcast apps like pocketcast. As Appstore continue to tend to favor free Apps, the glorified days of Inde- app development is over.